git has
1) working directory: where we can save , edit or add new files
2) staging area : wher git tracks the files and are ready to be commited. only this files will be commited.
3) repository : here files that are commited will be saved and can be used whenever required.

 1) untracked files: here git doesn't track the files and only sees it
2) modified area : git tracks here but not in staging area. files which are been previously commited are changed here.
3) staged area : here files which are needed to be saved in a repo are present.
4) commited area : here the files are saved and can be used whenever required.

Git commit : it stores the snapshot of the changes , a checkpoint is created. working directory becomes clean.

git amend: used to change commit which has some mistakes. can only be done in local repo .

git ignore :  tells git to not track this files. ex: when we import express , we dont need to keep the track of all the libraries it has imported. so we tell them to be inside git ignore.

imp: to change the branch from master to main -> git branch -m master main
--> if main already exist then : git checkout main -> git switch main

BRANCHING: git has a default main branch where head points to it.
Creates a new branch and doesn't switch to it and we remain on the current batch. 
ex: git branch feature-login

switching the branch : git checkout feature-login : it basically moves our head pointer and updates the working directory.

git checkout -b absdkjaf: it instantly creates new branch and switches the head 
git switch: its good for beginners, used only for branches
ex: git switch -c abcd

DELETION: deletes a local branch -> ex: git branch -d abcd
-> allows deletion only if branch has been merged and no data lost.

RENAME: for curr branch : git branch -m new-name
for another branch: git branch -m old-name new-name --> just useful in naming conventions.

imp: suppose we made a commit and the commit becomes fault. so in this case we cna remove it by making our head pointer change to the previous commit id. this can be done in 2 ways.
a) git reset --hard "abc"
b) git revert "abc" : its a more efficient way and no data loss.

MERGING : process of combining changes from one branch into another. basically used to merge branches.
1. fast forward merge: target branch has no new commits. git can simply move the branch pointer forward. no merge commit is created.
--> before merging switch into the branch where you want to merge into and then merge it using 
ex: git merge branch

1) Git Diff: shows changes in the working directory that are not yet staged. we use this before git add .
2) git diff HEAD : shows all changes since last commit , both staged and unstaged differences.
3) git diff main feature : comparing branches.
4) git diff --staged: changes already added to staging area , that will go into the next commit . 
5) git diff cm1 cm2 : difference between 2 checkpoints.

when to use?
-> before staging , committing , merging and during debug.

STASHING : git stash temporarily saves uncommitted changes so we can switch branches, work on something urgent and come back and continue later.
-> suppose we want to do something urgent and required to switch branch and due to this we need to commit it but we think that there are some changes need to be done so what it does is saves uncommitted changes . it saves modified tracked files.
1) git stash save "abc" : stash with a msg
2) git stash pop : applies to the most recent stash and removes it from the stash list. we use it when we are done with the temp work.
3) git stash apply : when we want to reuse the stash.

-> each stash has an index => stash@12
4) git stash drop stash@{0} : dropping a specific stash
5) git stash clear : removes all stashes and this action is permanent.

-> git checkout a commit: means going back to previous snapshot and project will be same as that point of commit, head will be pointing to the previous commit.
-> we do it to inspect old code and debug when an issue was introduced. ex: git checkout <commit-hash>




